In this video we're going to wrap up the notes application by wiring up the final command the read command.
Now before we get to that there is one thing I want to talk about related to how we're using the array
filter method in notes dot J.
S now an add note we use the filter method right here to help us track down any potential duplicates
and then remove.
Note we use filter to just keep the notes.
We want to keep.
Now we're not going to make any changes to how we use filter in remove note but I do want to talk about
how we're using it and add note and how this code could be improved the filter method as we know looks
through every single item and you're right.
In this case the notes are right.
And it runs at the function for each item determining whether or not that item should be copied over
to the new Array you're creating.
In this case duplicate notes.
Now the problem here is that filter is going to look through every single array item from beginning
to end regardless of what happens along the way.
So let's say we have 1000 notes we're looking through and we find a duplicate.
Let's say it's number eighty nine.
It would be nice to be able to stop right there but filter doesn't do that.
It would still look through the other nine hundred and eleven trying to find other duplicates which
we know it's not going to since the whole point of this code is to prevent duplicates from getting into
the data in the first place.
So it would be nice to be able to stop the process once we find a duplicate that has enough information
to know whether or not the new note should be added by running this code or whether we should show them
an error saying there is indeed a duplicate.
Now to actually get this done we're going to use a new Array method that is defined method.
And you'll also be using that for your challenge in this video to wire up the Reid command.
I'm going to start by creating a new variable called a duplicate note singular so filter returns an
array of matches the find method returns the first match it finds if any.
Otherwise it will return undefined.
Right here we are going to set its value equal to and we're going to call notes that it is still an
Array method.
The method itself is called Find.
Now we pass to the criteria for determining a match and that is exactly the same as what we used up
above.
The only difference is that we're going to stop when we find the first match.
So right here we are going to get in an argument.
This function is going to be called for every item until a match is found.
If no match is found every item will be searched through.
And right here we're looking at the notes title property trying to see if it equals the title argument
from up above.
So this function right here is identical to the one we have right here.
Now we can use duplicate note instead of duplicate notes to determine whether or not we should run this
code right here or the error code down below.
Let's go ahead and kick things off by wiping the if condition in here.
We're going to reference the duplicate note variable the new variable we just created.
Now this actually has the opposite effect of what we want.
If there is a duplicate note we are adding the new note on if there is no duplicate.
We're printing an error.
We want it the other way around.
And we can use the logical not operator to flip the value from true to false or from false to true right
here.
Now if there is no duplicate note we are going to run this code adding it if there is a duplicate note
we'll run the error down below.
So this would be one way you could set up the condition.
You could also check if duplicate note is equal to undefined.
That would work as well as the find method will return undefined if you don't find a match.
So this would read if there is no match.
Add the note.
Otherwise print the error.
I'm going to go ahead and stick with the shorter version I had right here using the logical not operator
and referencing our variable.
Now we can actually remove the duplicate notes line altogether as it's no longer being used.
And there we go.
We have a slightly more efficient version of the ad note function.
Now you're gonna go ahead and wire up the read command on your own.
I've got some challenge comments for this one and I'll paste them right up above in the notes dot J.S.
file.
So the goal is to wire up that Reid command.
First up we have to set up the title option for the Reid command.
So we have to configure yards to take in a title.
That's how we're gonna find the note to read.
And then you're going to create a Reid note function in this file notes Scott J S you want to search
for the note by the title provided.
So that'll have to be accepted as an argument and you're going to find the note and print the title
in a styled fashion and the body in just a plain und styled fashion.
Now if no note is found you can print an error message and read saying something like unable to find
note.
Next up make sure the command handler actually calls the new function you've created.
And then finally test your work try to read one of the notes in your Jason File and make sure you see
it's body printing.
Then try to read a note that doesn't exist and make sure you see that error message.
Take as much time as you need to knock this one out when you're done come back and click play
how'd that go.
Let's start with step 1.
I'm going to set up the title option for the command over an app that J ask near the bottom of my file.
I have the read command and all we have to do is set up that builder object.
So a builder property whose value is an object inside of there the only option we need is title.
So I'll set that property up and we're going to set up the three options we've set up for all of our
options.
We're going to set up describe demand option and type.
So first step describe.
We can pick whatever we want for this.
I've used note title in the past for some of our other similar options so I'll use the same thing here
then for the read command.
We do want to make sure a title is provided.
Otherwise we won't be able to read an individual note.
So right here demand option is indeed going to be true.
And I'm going to set type equal to the string string.
Now that we have this in place we are all done with step 1 and we can move on to step 2 which is to
actually create the function.
Over in this file so I'm going to do just that and I'll stick it down below list notes.
So right here a brand new constant called Read note.
And as mentioned this one is going to need to take in a single argument.
So I'll set up my arrow function and I will accept the title and that's how I'm going to figure out
which note to actually fetch and print.
Now from here we can go ahead and make sure this is exported down below alongside of our other exports
read note whose value comes from the read note function defined up above.
Now we can go back to the function and actually fill it out.
Now the first thing we're going to do is get all of the notes so we can actually look through them similar
to what we've done in some of the other methods.
So right here I'm going to create a concept called notes and in this case I am indeed going to load
those notes in.
Now once I load those notes in we're gonna go ahead and start to search for the one we're looking for.
So I can create a const note which would store the match or undefined if no match was found.
And this is where you needed to use the find array method.
So notes dot find we are looking for a match.
We're going to set up a function that gets called one time for every item in the array until a match
is found right here.
The individual item can be called note and I'm going to use the arrow function shorthand to return true
saying we've found a match when note that title equals the title argument.
So now we have this note variable and it might contain an object or it might not.
The next thing we're gonna do is add some conditional logic so we can knock out the rest of step 2 which
is to print the note information.
If we found it otherwise print an error message and read and we're gonna knock that out with an if statement
right here.
So we'll have an if statement with our condition and a code block and we'll also have our else clause
allowing us to handle both of those cases in the condition we're going to reference the note variable.
So if there is a note we'll print it.
Otherwise we'll print our error.
Let's go ahead and wire up those console dialog calls right here.
We're going to print the title styled so console dialogue.
I'm going to use chalk dot inverse to have a gray background right here passing to the note title that's
note dot title.
Excellent.
Next up we can print the body of the note as standard old text so console log passing in note dot body
would get the job done.
From there we can wire up the else clause in this case we want to go ahead and print an error saying
no note was found so we'll do just that console dot log.
I'll use chalk once again I'll use red dot inverse to print it with a red background and right here
we're gonna say something like.
Note Not Found.
Excellent.
Now that we have this in place the last thing to do before we test our work is to make sure that read
note actually gets called when someone uses the command read.
So over here we have to get ARG V where we can access the title and we have to call the Reid note function
that would be.
Notes dot Reid.
Note passing in ARG the DOT title now that we have this in place we can actually test things out making
sure our functionality works as expected.
I'm going to remove the challenge comments up top make sure all of these source files are indeed saved
and we're gonna go ahead and run the Reid command.
Now I have a couple of notes over here though the only one with a body is this first one.
So that's the one I'll try to read node app.
J.S. Reid passing in right here.
A title value equal to the letter T.
I'm gonna fire that command off and what do I get.
I get the title styled and I get the body in plain text.
Now let's go ahead and rerun these same command but swap out the title T for a title that does not exist
like shopping list if I run that.
And right here we have our note not found message.
So that's where we're gonna stop before this video and that's where we're gonna stop for this section
in the last two sections.
We used the notes application to explore a lot of fundamental topics like the node module system NPM
the file system Jason command line arguments and more.
All of which we're gonna use extensively throughout the rest of the class as we build out back ends
connected databases and create real time applications.
Now over in notes dot J ask before we wrap up there is a function up top called get notes.
We actually created this much earlier in the class but at that time we didn't wire it up.
We've already created functions for everything we need.
So that function get notes can be removed if you still have it in place.
Down below we can remove it from the exports as well.
Now it was never used in app dot J S so there's no need to make any code changes in there.
That's where we're gonna stop for this one in the next section.
We're gonna take a quick moment to talk about how we can debug our node applications.
So when we make typos or get stuck we can get back on track and fix our code quickly.
I'm excited to get to that so I'll see you in the next one.